Writing daily, but posting when ready

2019-11-01

I just finished an experiment.
	Last month, I published a new article to my blog every day.
	I’m glad I tried it, but ultimately I didn’t like it.
	Here’s why:

It made my writing worse, not better.
	I was trying to force a conclusion quicker.
	I was

skipping steps 2-5 of my writing process

.
	I didn’t have the time to look at more angles or doubt my first conclusion.

I was spending more time being shallow, to get something posted

, instead of taking that time to go deeper.

It broke the silent promise I’ve always had with my readers: that anything I post to my site is really worth your time.
	I already write many hours a day privately, but

I only post something to the public when I feel it’s really worth sharing.

But with the daily post?
	There were some good ideas in there, but I wasn’t entirely proud of the articles.
	They were under-developed.
	I didn’t feel 100% that they were so worth your time.

I was spending 3-6 hours per day writing my daily post.
	So I hardly worked on my next book or anything else.

Coming up with a daily post was becoming a full-time job.

And, considering the previous two points here, an unwise one.

It did make me write more, so I’ll probably find the happy medium now.
	I’ll be posting more than I used to before this experiment, but not every day.
	Only when I think it’s

really

worth your time.

P.S. For the record, here are my 33 daily posts:

Travel without a phone

Travel without social praise

Would you make your art if you were the last person on earth?

What I did belies why

Future posthumous autobiography

Have a private email account

Don’t quote. Make it yours and say it yourself.

Your heroes show which way you’re facing

Where to find the hours to make it happen

Daydreaming the downside, for once

Meta-considerate

Tour -isms

The joy and strategic wisdom of ignoring plans

Blowing off work to play

Err on the side of action, to test theories

Back and forth between super-hot and super-cold

Human nature to focus on the one bad thing

Where we do and don’t want automation

Anti-chameleon

Daydreaming is my favorite pastime

Heed your fears

Cut out everything that’s not surprising

Digital pollution

When you win the game, you stop playing

How to ask your mentors for help

Living according to your hierarchy of values

Monthly self-expansion project

Mastery school

PostgreSQL example of self-contained stored procedures

What you learn by travelling

Why experts are annoying

When in doubt, try the difference

How I got rich on the other hand

— © Derek Sivers · https://sivers.org/nod (copy & share)